=head1 NAME

code2pg - estimate the difficulty of a migration from Oracle
to PostgreSQL for application code.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: code2pg
[--config-file string]
[--csv-output string]
[--directory string]
[--directorytype string]
[--extension string]
[--format string]
[--help [instr]]
[--language string]
[--level1-minutes integer]
[--level2-minutes integer]
[--level3-minutes integer]
[--level4-minutes integer]
[--minutes-per-workday integer]
[--output-file] string
[--output-directory string]
[--rdbms rdbms]
[--orafce]
[--password string]
[--quiet]
[--tagfiles]
[--username string]
[--version]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

code2pg will estimate in man-days how difficult a migration from Oracle to 
PostgreSQL would be regarding application code. It does not handle the database 
code as ora2pg does, only the given application code. Therefore, a directory of 
source code (either files or svn) should be given as input and code2pg will 
generate a report in one of the following format: minimal, text or html.

The program can generate a csv output file, alerting the user on which files
(and which lines) were Oracle instructions encountered. It can also directly
tag the source code with special comments in order to navigate quickly to those
instructions.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-c> , B<--config-file> string

This configuration file will contain all user configurable switches. An example 
file is given (code2pg.conf). If a parameter is present in both config file and 
command line, the command line will take precedence. If no configuration file 
is given, at least the extension and language parameters are needed.

=item B<-C> , B<--csv-output> string

Oracle keywords will be redirected to this csv file. This file could be used to 
monitor the progress of the migration while working on the translation.

=item B<-d>, B<--directory> string

Specify which directory should be recursively analyzed. Defaults to current
directory. 

Can be used multiple times, for eg: ./code2pg -d dir1 -d dir2 ...

=item B<-D>, B<--directorytype> string

Specify which type of directory will be analyzed. It could be a normal
directory within the filesystem or a remote svn access.  Type = [file|svn].
Defaults to file.

=item B<-e>, B<--extension> string

Which file extensions will be analyzed in the specified directory. No preceding
dot should be used. This should be set together with I<language> when no 
configuration file is provided.

Can be used multiple times, for eg: ./code2pg -e ext1 -e ext2 ...

=item B<-f> , B<--format> string

The report will be generated according to the specified format. It could be one
of these values: txt, html or minimal. Defaults to html.

The txt output is markdown compatible.

=item B<-h> , B<--help> [string]

Prints a short help.

With a parameter, prints help on the specified RDBMS instruction in a 
markdown format, such as links to official documentation, comments, 
difficulty ... If this parameter is I<all_instructions>, then all 
available instructions will be sent to standard output. 

=item B<-l> , B<--language> string

The chosen language calling the RDBMS. This should be set together with 
I<extension> when no configuration file is provided.
lang = [java|proc|cobol|javascript|dotnet|plsql|...]

=item B<--level1-minutes > integer

Number of minutes needed to translate a level1 instruction (1 by default).

=item B<--level2-minutes > integer

Number of minutes needed to translate a level2 instruction (4 by default).

=item B<--level3-minutes > integer

Number of minutes needed to translate a level3 instruction (8 by default).

=item B<--level4-minutes > integer

Number of minutes needed to translate a level4 instruction (16 by default).

=item B<--minutes-per-workday > integer

Number of minutes per workday (360 by default).

=item B<-o> , B<--output-file> string

The name (without the directory) of the generated report. A good practice
would be to use a proper extension depending on the type of report.

=item B<-O> , B<--output-directory> string

Specifies in which directory the report will be saved.

=item B<--rdbms> string

Migration will be from the specified RDBMS to PostgreSQL. So far, only 
Oracle is supported. 

rdbms = [oracle]

=item B<-r> , B<--orafce>

Specifies if the migration will be using orafce. If so, many Oracle
instructions won't need to be translated and migrations will be eased.

=item B<-p> , B<--password>

If the directory type is SVN, this will provide the password for the required
svn commands. Both password and username parameters must be provided at the
same time. If you do not wish to use this option on the command line, you could
save your svn credentials locally. The file ~/.subversion/servers should be
changed with store-passwords=yes and store-plaintext-passwords=yes.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Do not output to stdout. This will silence notifications such as the progress 
report.

=item B<-t> , B<--tagfiles>

Every time an Oracle instruction is encountered, the corresponding file and
line could be tagged in order to alert the developper. This comment will be
like CODE2PG_Instruction, which should allow easy searching. As for
now, only a local directory is supported (no svn).

Important: use on a copy of your files.

=item B<-u> , B<--username>

If the directory type is SVN, this will provide the username for the required
svn commands. Both password and username parameters must be provided at the
same time. If you do not wish to use this option on the command line, you could
save your svn credentials locally. The file ~/.subversion/servers should be
changed with store-passwords=yes and store-plaintext-passwords=yes.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Print the version of the program and exit.

=back

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

=over

=item B<Bug: Regex>

too many false positives (user, last, least, ...).

=item B<Bug: Regex>

Strings in text could be used with " or '.

=item B<Bug: Reports >

Reports number of analyzed LOC is wrong (=0) for svn access.

=item B<Limitation: Tag>

Tagfiles cannot be used with a SVN repo yet.

=item B<Limitation: extensions>

Only one extension can be specified at a time.

=item B<Limitation: tests>

Testing (non regression, functionnal, ...) is not included in the estimation
and can change rather drastically the cost in man-days.

=back

